Hi, I'm Mark Kawano,
Apple's User Experience Evangelist.
In this video,
I'm going to go through some tips
to help you with the design and user
experience of your iPhone or iPad app.
The content I've put together comes from
my experience designing apps at Apple,
as well as my experience working
with thousands of developers
from all over the world.
I will address some of the most
common usability issues in iOS apps,
and will also show many examples of great
user experiences to educate and inspire.
Some of the topics may seem familiar to
those of you who have seen some of my
previous videos on user interface design.
However,
this is a brand new talk with a lot of
new tips to help any developer create
a more intuitive and engaging app.
So let's get started.
I want to start off by saying
that it would be impossible for me
to talk about every UI situation
you'll face when designing an app.
And that's not my intention.
Like I said earlier,
the content I've put together
addresses the most common
usability issues in iOS apps.
To get started,
I want to talk about the importance of
telling a great story with your app.
When designing an app,
you should always be thinking about
the story you're trying to tell.
Just like the most powerful stories are
able to really captivate an audience,
well, similarly,
great apps are capable of
creating an equally powerful
emotional response for its users.
I know that when I use a great app,
it makes me feel really great,
and as a developer or a designer,
it's inspiring.
So when you design your app,
you should constantly think about
what it takes to tell a great story.
So to help you tell a great story,
there are a few things to think about.
First, what will your app do?
Think of this as the plot for your story.
It's not enough to just have
an app on the App Store.
It needs to provide value for its users.
Next, who are the users?
When you tell a great story,
it's important to know the
audience you're telling it to.
When you design for a
specific user group,
it will affect every part
of the design process.
From the feature set,
to the visual design,
to the interaction metaphors.
And finally, you also need to think
about the story's settings.
The iPhone and the iPad
are mobile devices,
and they're not used in the same settings
as traditional software or websites.
I know that I use my iPhone
or iPad throughout the day,
wherever I am.
Designing a great product
doesn't start or end with a list
of features or technologies.
At the end of the day,
people care about how your app makes
them feel and what it enables them to do.
to do.
And this is why in our ads,
we don't talk about RAM, processor speed,
or all the other technologies.
Instead, we focus on all the great things
that you can do with our products.
The features and technologies
that you include in your app
should only be there to support
the story you're trying to tell.
And I find it really helpful to envision
a 30-second commercial of your product
at the beginning of the design process.
And this will really help you focus
on the most important screens,
the most important features,
and the overall visual design that you're
going to be using throughout your app.
So throughout your design process,
always think about how
to tell a great story.
And above all else,
your goal should be to
create an experience that
enables and delights people.
And if you're able to
accomplish this goal,
I can guarantee it's one of
the most rewarding feelings
you'll get as a developer.
[Transcript missing]
First of all, entertainment apps
should be highly visual.
If you're designing for the iPhone,
really take advantage
of the retina display.
If you're designing for the iPad,
make sure you showcase the content
on the large 10-inch screen.
The layout, graphics, and typography,
they all need to look great.
You're competing with thousands
of other apps on the app
stores in several categories,
and a lot of people are gonna decide
to download your app based purely
on how good your screenshots look.
Entertainment apps should also be fun.
Users typically spend a lot
more time in entertainment apps,
and the experience
shouldn't feel like a chore.
This is ShowYou,
an app that lets you explore
all videos that have been
posted to your social graph,
whether it's Twitter, Facebook,
or your ShowYou network of friends.
And the interface is essentially
a big wall of videos that you
can browse in any direction.
As you move up, down, left, or right,
more videos come in,
and when something catches your eye,
you can just tap on it to start watching.
It's a really great, fun experience that
doesn't feel so controlled.
Entertainment apps
should also be immersive.
Think about new ways to utilize the
accelerometer and multi-touch gestures.
Because you're trying to entertain,
you can be a little bit more
gratuitous with animation and sound.
Compared to utility apps,
navigating content can be a
little bit more exploratory too.
The path to accessing multimedia
doesn't always need to be so linear.
This is the Biophilia app from Bjork.
She describes the app as
an exploration of nature,
music, and technology.
And as you can see on the main screen,
you can explore this
three-dimensional galaxy of songs.
And choosing a song will load a
unique interactive visualization.
It's really an amazing
audio and visual experience.
If you decide to design
experimental UI like Biophilia,
just be careful not to confuse
your users as the fun will
quickly turn to frustration.
So those were some of the tips
I've learned from the app.
Here are some key characteristics
of entertainment apps.
Now, let's talk about utility apps.
By definition,
utility apps need to be useful.
You can't make the assumption
that a strong brand presence
is enough of a reason for users
to download and use your app.
I'm sure many of you have had the
experience where you discover one of
your favorite brands on the app store.
And so you download that app only to
discover that it doesn't do anything.
Maybe it just provides some marketing
content or promotional material.
And so usually what happens
is you delete the app.
It's critical that your iPhone or iPad
app provides some value that goes beyond
what they can get from your website.
For example,
this is the State Farm Pocket Agent app.
State Farm is a large insurance
company and bank in the US.
And when they designed their mobile app,
they really thought about what features
they could provide that would go
above and beyond their mobile website.
So bank customers are able to
take a photo of the check they
receive and directly deposit
the funds into their account.
And so they're taking advantage of the
built-in camera and unique technologies
that are available on the iPhone.
And insurance customers also
have a personalized copy of their
insurance card right in their app.
If they get pulled over by the police
or get into a traffic accident,
they can easily share this
information with whoever they need to.
So they'll definitely want to
keep this app on their device.
And if you do get into an accident,
this app actually lets you take
photos of the scene of the accident
and draw out the scene using
some of their drawing tools.
All of this allows you to file a
claim directly in your iPhone app.
You can even mark the damaged part of
your car to expedite the claim process.
So there's a lot of really useful
features that State Farm thought about
when they built out their iPhone app.
Another characteristic of utility apps
is that they need to be efficient.
Tasks should be optimized
for speed and productivity.
The path to information
should be clear and direct.
Remember that users aren't
as interested in spending a
lot of time in utility apps.
They want to complete their tasks
and then move on with their life.
So avoid launch animations
and excessive branding.
Really, the most effective way to promote
your brand is providing a great
streamlined user experience that
your customers will remember.
And so can you imagine how annoying mail
would be if it had a UI like the app
Shoyu that I showed earlier or Biophilia
that would get really frustrating when
you're trying to read your inbox or
compose messages to whoever you need to?
Another characteristic of utility
apps is that they need to be reliable.
People need to know that they
can count on the information in
utility apps wherever they are.
And they don't want to be surprised when
navigating different parts of the UI.
This is Jeppesen's Mobile TC app.
This app replaces all the flight
map charts in the cockpit for
pilots flying commercial aircraft.
So it goes without saying that
this app needs to be very reliable.
And this is another app that
would be really frustrating to use
if there was a launch animation
or some type of exploratory UI.
So those are some key characteristics
of entertainment and utility apps.
Entertainment apps
should be highly visual,
fun, and immersive.
And utility apps should be useful,
efficient, and reliable.
It's important that your UI is
appropriate for the type of
app that you're building.
But I know a lot of apps won't
land all the way on one side
of the axis or the other.
And so if you have a
hybrid app like this,
just apply these different
characteristics to the part of
the app where it makes sense.
So for example,
here's an app like GarageBand that
allows you to create and mix songs.
But it's also really entertaining.
And so it's a mix of
entertainment and utility.
And so we applied these different
characteristics to the parts of
the app where it makes sense.
Here in the instrument screen,
it's highly visual, immersive,
and it's a lot of fun.
So you can spend a lot of time
noodling around on the instruments.
But when you go to edit a track,
it's all business.
The graphics still look good,
but the screen is designed for
efficiency so you can mix up
your song as quick as possible.
Another example of a
hybrid app is iMovie.
For those of you who have used this app,
you know that when you launch the app,
it's a lot of fun.
You're taken to the movie theater screen,
the neon sign flickers on,
and there's this nice sound and
animation that lets you really feel
like you're going to the movies.
And underneath,
there's this marquee with movie posters
where a user can swipe between the
different movies that they've created.
However, when you're editing a movie,
the view is a lot more serious.
There are multiple levels
of tracks to choose from,
and the design is optimized to help users
edit their movie as fast as possible.
We could have continued the metaphor of
this old movie theater with film reels
and maybe a traditional play button,
but that would have gotten
really frustrating when you're
going to edit an actual movie.
The fun part of this app is
so you can share your movie
with your friends and family,
not spend a whole lot of time
editing all the different pieces.
Now let's talk about how to edit a movie.
Let's get to the second question.
What kind of content does your app have?
The characteristics of entertainment and
utility apps should give you a good idea
of how your app should feel to a user,
but it's really the content that will
play a much bigger role in the overall
look and visual design of your app.
So what I'm going to do now is go through
a bunch of different types of content
and give you a good idea of how it will
influence the visual design of your app.
So first, I'm going to talk about
photos and videos.
When you've got photos
and videos in your app,
make sure that you
fill the entire screen.
Even if the rest of your app only
works in portrait orientation,
make sure that you support
landscape orientation for watching
movies and swiping through photos.
This will allow you to
maximize the aspect ratio of
most media versus the device.
And if the photo or video is part
of a book chapter or news article,
allow users to pinch on the thumbnails to
let the photos or videos fill the screen.
This is one of the biggest advantages
of these devices over printed media,
and so if you're not letting
users interact with the device,
you're really not doing anything
better than what they could
get in a book or a newspaper.
If you need to provide caption
information or navigation controls,
make sure it all disappears
with a single tap of the photo.
Here we're looking at the
Guardian Eyewitness app.
And this is a beautiful app for viewing
amazing photos from all over the world.
And they show caption information
and give some tips directly from the
photographer on how the photo was taken.
And also they've got a sponsor
graphic in the lower right corner,
and they've got navigation at the top.
But as soon as you tap the photo,
all the controls hide and the
photo just fills the screen.
Even the iOS status bar should go away.
People will expect to swipe to
navigate between a set of photos.
Make sure you don't clutter the screen
with navigation arrows or a scroll bar.
When people see these interface elements,
they'll know that you simply
ported a UI from another platform,
like a website.
And with videos,
you should use the native iOS
playback controls as much as possible.
I've seen a lot of developers build
their own custom playback controls
just to be unique or to match the
colors in other parts of their app.
And while I admit this looks nice,
it's usually not an area that
I recommend you spend a lot of
time in in the development process.
This is a part of the interface
that most people won't even notice.
When they go to watch a movie,
they'll focus on the actual
video that they want to play.
If they have to relearn
where familiar buttons are,
they'll get frustrated.
When you use the native controls,
you'll get proper built-in support
for AirPlay and high-speed scrubbing.
You also won't have to worry
about updating your code
for each time we update iOS.
When you do need to surface
the UI with photos and videos,
you want to make sure that
you're reducing any visual
noise in the user interface.
Use the translucent navigation bars
and black buttons and really minimize
any color throughout the interface.
Here we're looking at the
Photos app on the iPad.
As you can see,
we've really reduced the amount
of color in the interface.
You never want the chrome
to outshine the content.
As an exercise,
let's take a look at what happens
in this app if we put the piles of
photos and a nice wood background.
At first glance, it may look nice,
and it certainly creates
a more memorable UI.
Conceptually, it works well as well.
The piles of photos look like
they're on this nice wooden desk.
But the wood is stealing the show,
and it makes distinguishing the
different photos a lot harder.
So look how much more the photos
stand out on the black background
that we use in the Photos app.
Photos and videos are a
visually rich type of content,
so be really careful that the
interface doesn't distract the user.
The next type of content that I want
to talk about are large data sets.
Essentially, these are apps with a lot
of information to manage.
Because most data-intensive apps
fall into the utility category,
it's important that accessing
the information is efficient.
Use proper alignment throughout your
app to help increase legibility.
This is very helpful on screens
that need to scroll a lot.
In Mail, we left-aligned the name,
subject, and message preview,
and right-aligned the dates.
And having this rigid grid makes
finding a message a lot easier.
When you have data that requires
a label in addition to the value,
like we do in contacts,
make sure that you right align the
label and left align the values.
And this allows your eye to again
focus on a single part of the
screen and track a lot of data.
Another typographic consideration
for information dense screens are the
typefaces and font sizes that you choose.
Rather than mix and match a
lot of different typefaces,
use subtle shading and
font sizes to distinguish
different types of information.
So in Mail,
we used the standard Helvetica
New in several sizes.
The most important
information is the sender,
and so we made that a
black 17 point bold.
The next important piece of
information is the subject,
and so that still gets black,
but it's 14 point and no longer bold.
The message preview is the next
piece of information we display,
and that shows up as
gray 13 point regular.
13 point Helvetica New is the minimum
size that you can use in your iPhone
or iPad app without making users
hold the device closer to their face.
And you shouldn't use this
small size for body text,
as it's tiring to read in
more than a line or two.
And you shouldn't use this
small size for body text,
as it's tiring to read in
more than a line or two.
And so when we go to show
the messages in Mail,
we actually use a 15 point Helvetica New,
so that's much easier to read with
line wrapping and multiple paragraphs.
And depending on how users use your app,
you may need to increase the
font size above 15 point.
Another consideration for information
dense screens is that you want to
make sure that navigation is easy.
And what I mean by navigation here
isn't just the movement between
different parts of your app,
but also for the ability of the
user to look at a single screen
on your app and find the different
pieces of information that they want.
This is the Yahoo Market Dash app.
And there's a lot of data on this screen
because the user is tracking all types
of information on the stock market.
But because the Yahoo developers
paid careful attention to typography
and maintaining a strict grid,
it's not overwhelming to look at.
And you can pretty quickly locate
different pieces of information
and just tap on the different
informations to get even more details.
And I think this UI looks
really nice as well.
A lot of developers disregard
the importance of visual design
when building apps that house
a lot of information and text.
Just like we saw in the Yahoo Finance,
not all data-intensive apps need
to use the standard controls.
This is the
Japanese Major League Baseball
app from Genesics.
It's called Wonderho Stadium.
And I really like how
clean this app looks,
so let's take a closer look.
You can tell they put a lot of effort
into making this app look great.
When there's a live game,
there's a lot of information
that's constantly coming in.
Updated scores, stats, news,
and different Twitter feeds.
And the subtle custom
textures and UI elements never
get in the way with that.
Bold colors are used
with a specific purpose,
and text is spaced apart
nicely and easy to read.
They even use this wood texture
in the top chrome to give it
a little more visual flair.
But it's subtle enough that it
doesn't distract from the data.
With data-intensive apps,
you need to be very careful
about what you're using.
You can be very cautious with realism.
It's easy for rich graphics to
distract from the important content.
But when done properly,
it can make a really great impression.
The next type of content that I want to
talk about are apps with minimal data.
And this is kind of the
opposite as the large data sets,
apps that don't have a lot
of information to display.
And these are the apps that
benefit the most from the use
of realism and bold graphics.
The built-in compass is
a great example of this.
The app doesn't have to deal
with a lot of information.
And so looking like an actual
compass really helps users know
how to interact with it right away.
This next app is Etude
from Steinway and Sons.
It turns your iPhone into a
metronome to help you stay on tempo
if you're practicing the piano.
Because the designers
mimicked expensive materials,
the app feels right at home
on top of one of their pianos.
The graphically rich UI works
well because there isn't a
lot of information to display,
just the tempo.
Here's another great looking app.
It's called Thermo from Robocat.
And when you launch it,
it's just a thermometer and it's empty.
And as the mercury animates up,
it shows you what the current temperature
is based on your GPS location.
Again, this is a rich,
highly visual UI that works
well because there isn't a
lot of information to display,
just the current temperature and
the temperature of the day before.
Here's DJ,
an Apple Design Award-winning app.
It's got a gorgeous interface
with a realistic rendering
of a set of turntables.
And again, not a lot of information
is presented in this app.
Most of the time you spend interacting
with the great-looking controls.
The next app is Flight Card.
This is a travel app that lets
you track flight information.
The designers made the
UI look like a boarding pass,
a really nice looking boarding pass.
People might use this app in an
airport holding a suitcase in one hand,
and the great visual design
will really help them find the
information they're looking for
even in a distracting setting.
The graphics are also a lot more fun and
memorable than a standard table view.
Here's the Voice Memos app.
When you're recording, there's hardly any
information to display,
so it really benefits from this
beautiful rendering of a microphone.
But when you need to
access your recordings,
the UI is a lot more traditional.
We could have continued the
metaphor and used cassette tapes
or a digital recording deck,
but that UI would have
been a lot less efficient.
Make sure you use realism only
where appropriate in your app.
I want to revisit the Mail app to
talk more about this important point.
Mail is an app that we could have
created a really realistic graphical UI.
There could be envelopes, postage stamps,
and animations all over the place
for messages flying into mailboxes.
But all of that would have been
distracting from the content.
Mail has a large data set
that's constantly changing.
In your app, make sure you're using
realism appropriately.
It's a great way to make a memorable UI,
but you need to make sure you're
not distracting the user from the
information that they care about.
Now let's talk about games.
It goes without saying that the
graphics need to be beautiful.
But make sure you're consistent.
Everything should look great as
soon as the user launches the app,
even the menus.
This is Zenbound 2.
It's one of my favorite games on iOS.
It's a multi-touch puzzle game
with beautiful 3D graphics
that you can see here.
And as you can see,
the menu screens not only look
nice as soon as you launch the app,
but they're also a lot of
fun to interact with as well.
You want to be consistent
with typography as well.
Make sure the typeface matches
the visual style of your game.
Just as a handwriting typeface would feel
out of place in Mail or the Stocks app,
the default Helvetica New feels
equally out of place in most games.
So make sure you're using
something a little bit more fun
and appropriate for the visual
style that you have in your game.
With games,
make sure you customize Game Center's
leaderboard and achievement
screens to match the visual style.
This is Astronut from The Icon Factory.
They've made the achievement and
leaderboard screens fit right
into the visual theme of the game.
The default green felt would feel really
out of place with the space-age interface
that they've created in this app.
Here's another great app with
customized Game Center screens.
It's Flight Control HD.
This is a totally addictive game where
you act as an air traffic controller
and land planes on different runways.
They've decided to actually
integrate the achievement screen
right into the game's menu.
And so when you launch the app,
it looks like a pilot flight's logbook.
Because they integrated the
screen right into the menu,
it looks like they built
Game Center themselves.
Next,
I want to talk a little bit more about
customization in any type of app.
So a lot of developers ask me about how
to deal with the UI in a universal app.
Maybe they've got a UI that
they're happy with on the iPhone,
but they're struggling as
they transition to the iPad.
Maybe the UI isn't working
as well on the large screen.
Well, even in a universal app,
you want to make sure that you're
customizing the UI for the specific
device you're designing for.
So here we're looking at the
built-in music app on the
iPhone and iPad on iOS 5.
And as you can see,
the artist screen looks
completely different on the
iPhone compared to the iPad.
We're really taking advantage of the
larger screen to show the big cover art.
But the cover art on the small iPhone
screen would really get in the way when
you've got hundreds or thousands of
artists saved to your music library.
One of the best features of iOS
5 is the ability to customize
the look of UIKit controls.
In iOS 5, most of the UIKit controls
are now skinnable.
You can choose custom colors or images
to make the native controls perfectly
match the theme of your interface.
Things like tab bars, nav bars, buttons,
and segmented controls can all match
the visual style that you want.
Here you can see Game Center.
In iOS 4,
we had to build all these custom controls
to get the exact look that we wanted.
A lot of you have had to do
the same thing in your apps.
But in iOS 5,
we were able to throw out all of
that custom code and just theme
the native UIKit controls to
have a really custom appearance.
If you're customizing the UI in your app,
make sure you're reading the
human interface guidelines.
It's a great way to learn
about iOS conventions.
In fact, everybody designing for iOS
should read this document.
I like to think of the
HIG kind of like a cookbook.
At the beginning,
there are a lot of tips on how
to approach different projects.
And in the back,
there's all these recipes on
how specific controls work.
But just like cooking,
when you really get to know why
ingredients work well together,
you'll be able to create a great dish.
Well, when you understand why we
use different controls in iOS,
you'll be able to go above and
beyond what we provide and create
appropriate UI for your app.
This is a great picture of the
HIG that a developer sent to me.
It's bookmarked and worn out,
and this is what every
HIG should look like.
OK, so those were some tips to help
you define your app's style.
Next, I want to talk about touch.
And this is an area that's going to
sound familiar to those of you who
have heard some of my past UI talks.
But this topic is worth repeating.
So many apps have controls and interfaces
suited for a pixel precise mouse cursor.
In your app, make sure you're
accommodating for a fingertip.
In the iOS Human Interface Guidelines,
we recommend controls to be
a minimum of 44 by 44 points.
And the built-in Calculator app
is a great reference to follow.
Controls are 44 points tall,
and they're nicely spaced apart.
And you'll see that we use
44 points throughout iOS.
It's not just the calculator.
The nav bars and toolbars are 44 points.
And you can notice that the
controls in the toolbars are a
little bit smaller than 44 points,
but the actual input area that's
going to recognize a touch
gesture will be 44 points.
Rows and table views and grouped
table views are 44 points.
On the iPad,
buttons and popovers are 44 points tall.
The device is bigger,
but the size of the finger is the same.
The controls in
FaceTime are 44 points tall.
Okay, so I could spend all day going
through all the apps showing you more
examples of 44-point-sized controls,
but I hope that I've made my point.
In your app, make sure controls are
at least 44 points.
If your users are using an app
in a hyper-mobile workflow,
make sure the controls are even bigger.
So with the touchscreen,
you also need to make sure that
you're thinking about gestures,
not just touch size.
Here's the built-in weather app.
When you launch the app,
you're viewing the weather
forecast right away.
Users can quickly swipe to navigate
between the different cities.
And by using a gesture,
we're able to fill the
screen with content.
It's a very fast way
to move between items.
If you use swiping in your app,
here are some things that
you need to consider.
All the items that a user
swipes between should be equal.
In the weather app,
all cities are the same.
They may be in a different order,
but they're still all cities.
It would be very confusing if the
user was swiping between cities,
and then all of a sudden they
swiped to the settings screen.
So make sure that you
flatten out the hierarchy.
When a user swipes with their finger,
it should feel like they're actually
grabbing the item on the screen.
I've seen a lot of apps when you
make the swipe motion and then a
second later the screen animates.
While the delay may be
acceptable on a desktop website,
it feels very unresponsive
on a touchscreen.
Users will think your
app is slow and buggy,
so make sure your app is properly
tracking the user's finger.
You also need to make sure you're
providing some sort of visual
indicator letting users know that
they can swipe to see more items.
Paging controls give users a nice
indication that they can swipe and just
how much swiping they'll have to do.
If those paging dots
don't work in your design,
consider revealing a little bit of
whatever is to the left or to the
right of the currently selected item.
This way it will always be clear
to users when they need to swipe.
You also want to provide visual
indicators for scrolling in iOS,
since we don't show scroll bars
until the user starts to scroll.
In all of our built-in apps,
we use non-integral rows to
provide a little bit of indication
there is more information below.
When a user sees that last cell cut off,
they know that there's more
information they need to interact with.
With gestures, make sure you're not
hiding key functionality.
Not all users are familiar with
the fact that you can swipe on a
row to reveal the Delete button.
And users certainly aren't going to
be familiar with any custom gestures
that you build into your own app.
So you want to make sure that
you provide actual affordance for
any of the key functionalities.
In the case of mail,
we provide this Edit button so all users
know how to get to this functionality.
So when designing for the touchscreen,
make sure your controls are sized for a
finger and you support common gestures.
But I want to challenge you
to go above and beyond that.
I want to show you some apps that
are completely touch-centric.
This is our choice from Push Pop Press.
It's an interactive book
from Al Gore that also
won an Apple Design Award.
Their UI lets users swipe, tap, scroll,
and pinch their way around the content.
And because they use
the standard gestures,
there's actually no UI.
You always interact
directly with the content.
And so you've really got to see this
app in action to get an understanding
of how touch-centric this interface is.
So let's take a look.
The designers really paid attention
to all of the details here.
And I don't know if you noticed,
but even when the user
was pinching the video,
it was still playing
underneath their fingers.
I want to show another example
of a touch-centric app.
It's called Stock Touch.
Like Push Pop Press,
this UI is completely touch-centric.
When you launch the app,
you can see an overview of different
sectors of the stock market,
whether it's financial information,
technology, consumer goods.
They've broken the stock market
into nine different segments.
And right away,
you can see how the market is performing.
The green is showing
the stocks that are up,
and the red is showing the
stocks that have gone down.
And so again,
we need to see this app in action
to really appreciate how much the
touch comes into play in their UI.
The App
I love this app because the developers
used the touch screen of the iPad to
create a really engaging experience
for viewing financial information.
And if you're designing a game,
take the time to think about how
to make it touch-centric as well.
I want to tell you about an app called
Mike Tyson's Main Event from Rock Live.
This is version 1.0 of their game.
As you can see,
it had a traditional D-pad and buttons
that mimicked a console controller.
And the game was stuck at
2.5 stars on the App Store.
So clearly,
there was room for improvement.
In version 2 of the game,
they remapped all the
controls to gestures.
And immediately, they saw the number of
users go up by 2.5 times.
And additionally,
the ratings went to 4 stars.
Those of you with apps on the
App Store know how hard it is
to get your ratings to go up
when you get a lot more users.
The most impressive thing was
that engagement went up as well.
Users are now getting to the 12th level
of the game instead of the 4th before.
And if you think about it,
most of the top selling and popular iOS
games that don't use the accelerometer
have interfaces that completely
revolve around the touch screen,
whether it's Angry Birds or Plant vs.
Zombies, Infinity Blade or Fruit Ninja.
Okay, so that was touch.
Next up is animation.
Use animation in your app to help
smooth the transitions between screens.
In the real world,
objects don't just appear and disappear.
And if you see this in an app,
it can be very jarring.
So in the Notes app,
we use the page curl animation
when you're moving between notes.
And when you delete a note,
it animates right into the trash can.
So these are really helpful for the
user as it gives them an idea of what
happened on the way to the next screen.
And it's also a lot more engaging.
Great native apps feel really fast,
and animation is one of the
tricks we use throughout the
platform to make things feel zippy.
When you tap on controls,
make sure the app responds right away.
If you need to load
data from the network,
immediately transition to
the screen that will load in.
Don't just leave them on the same screen
and throw up a progress indicator.
If they don't notice it,
they'll think that their
tap wasn't recognized.
Apps that throw up the progress
indicator right away that don't
transition feel a lot more like
a web page than a native app.
Use animation to provide
feedback in your app as well.
We put all the apps in a jiggle mode
when you press and hold the app icon.
This animation is great because we
don't need to display a text alert
or other interface element that would
get in the way with the operation.
In the iTunes Store,
we use several animations to communicate
status and let the user know when
something is happening in the app.
When you buy a song,
it jumps into the Downloads tab so
you know exactly where to find it.
The downloading animation is really
nice because it lets you continue
previewing other songs in the album
without forcing you into a different
screen or showing an ugly text alert.
We use animations throughout iOS and
it's one of the biggest differences
between iOS and our competitors.
When you interact with the apps,
a lot of time you don't even notice the
animations because they feel so natural.
But if you were to remove the animations,
I guarantee you would notice it.
Some interactions would get confusing,
the devices would feel slower,
and it just wouldn't feel
as polished or engaging.
Think about how to use animation in
your app to make things feel natural,
to provide a more natural experience,
to provide feedback to users,
and to give them a better
idea of what's going on.
And if you're in an entertainment app,
make sure you use animation
to make the app more fun.
Okay, so think about how to use animation
in your app to make it more intuitive
and feel like it belongs on iOS.
The next topic is focus.
When you build out your feature set,
it's really tempting to add
items that you may have thought
were cool in another app.
Or maybe they sound interesting
because they utilize a new technology.
But keep referring back to the
story you're trying to tell.
When you focus on just the
most important features,
you'll have more time to
polish the overall experience.
The key to designing a successful app
is to determine just the essential
features needed to make it great,
and to spend all the time
polishing just those.
All of the things I talked about earlier,
animation, graphics, touch interaction,
is hard work, so you'll struggle if
you try to do too much.
To illustrate this point,
I want to talk about a great iPad app,
Penultimate from CocoaBox Design,
and it's consistently kept
a four to five star rating.
When you launch the app,
it essentially turns your iPad
into a notebook of your choice,
and it's got a beautiful UI.
This is what Penultimate looked like
when it first launched in April 2010.
There were three paper
types to choose from,
but only one pen color and tip size.
The app was lacking several features
that other sketching apps had.
Yet it remained popular because
people loved the clean design,
all the little attention to details.
There were a lot of feature requests from
users asking for all kinds of things.
And when this happens,
you know you've done a great job.
It means people like your
product and they want more of it.
A mistake so many developers make is
trying to build everything at once,
right out of the gate.
What often happens is a full-featured app
that's either too complicated or buggy.
So what Penultimate did is
slowly they added the features
that people were asking for.
In June,
they added the ability to choose a
few different colors and pen tips.
A few months later, they added multi-page
selection and AirPrint support.
In May 2011, they added a paper shop to
purchase different paper
types to use in a notebook.
And this was great for musicians,
designers, writers,
and anybody looking for a specific
paper background in their notebooks.
And even their in-app purchase store
looks really great because they were able
to focus on just this specific feature.
In September, they added the ability to
add photos to a notebook.
This has been a feature that people
asked for from the very beginning,
but they waited this long because
they really wanted to nail it.
And just recently,
they added a selection tool and
a few more colors to the app.
Since penultimate originally launched,
there have been over 10 feature releases.
And as you can see,
the overall design of the
app has stayed true to form.
Sure, there may be one or two
more icons here and there,
but the mechanics and the same
appealing visual design are still there.
This isn't a coincidence.
CocoaBox Design carefully examined which
features were most important and spent
a lot of time polishing each one before
they were introduced into the app.
In your app,
figure out the absolute minimum number of
features needed to accomplish your idea.
Cut everything else out and really spend
your time polishing those features.
So that was focus.
Next up is prototyping.
This is the last topic I'm
going to be talking about,
and I can spend an hour just
talking about this area.
But we're short on time,
and I wanted to run through
just a few quick tips.
The first tip is just to make sure
you're actually prototyping your app at
the very early stages of development.
Use whatever tool you're
most comfortable with.
Keynote is a great prototyping tool.
The advanced features for builds and
the ability to magic move objects
between slides let you really play
around with different animations.
But use any tool you're comfortable with,
whether it's Xcode storyboarding, motion,
Quartz Composer, After Effects,
or even pen and paper.
Further on in the design process,
you need to make sure you're testing
everything on the actual device.
While the iOS simulator is great,
it won't give you a good enough
idea of how the graphics and text
will look on an iPhone or iPad.
There are now several great
apps to help you test the UI on
the device as you design it.
LiveView is one of the oldest,
but there is also Xscope from the Icon
Factory or ScalaView from Bidjango.
When you run the
companion apps on the Mac,
they will broadcast the UI over
Wi-Fi to an iPhone or iPad,
and this makes designing really easy.
Another good way to do this
is using PhotoStream on iOS 5.
Just save PNGs of your mockups
to your PhotoStream in iPhoto,
and they will automatically
show up on your iPad or iPhone,
ready to preview the UI.
It goes without saying that you need
to have a great app icon for your app,
and this is a topic that
I could talk about in depth.
But I just want to give you one quick
tip to test how great your icon is.
Just put it inside of a
folder to test legibility.
When you look at the
icon in the small size,
you'll be able to tell how
distinct the shape and colors are.
The best iOS app icons are still
distinguishable at the small size.
Sure,
you won't see all the great details,
but icons that get all muddied
up are usually too visually
complicated even at the large size.
The last thing I want to talk
about is something that you
should constantly ask yourself,
and that is, is it Apple quality?
Is your app at the same level as
something Apple would release?
This is a question we ask
ourselves all the time when we're
working on our own products,
and there's no reason you shouldn't have
the same high standards for features,
beauty, and intuitiveness.
Okay, so those were just a few
quick tips for prototyping.
I covered a lot of material today,
so I just want to review
some of the key points.
Make sure you've got a clearly
defined style for your app.
Take into consideration the type
of app you're building and the
kind of content you're displaying.
Design your app for touch.
Everything needs to be
designed for a fingertip,
and you should support
the appropriate gestures.
But try to go above and beyond that
and build a touch-centric experience.
Use animation in your app
to make it feel faster,
more intuitive, and more at home on iOS.
Always focus your feature set.
Determine the essential features
needed and spend all of your
time just polishing those bits.
And make sure you prototype your
app from the very beginning.
This will help you save valuable time
throughout the development process.
And always remember that one of your
main goals is to tell a great story.
Really think about what your
app will enable users to do.
Make sure that every part of
the experience is delightful.
So that's it.
Thanks for listening to my talk.
Whether you're just getting
started with a new app or
are updating an existing app,
I hope you can use many of the
tips that I went through to improve
the overall user experience.
iPhone and iPad users expect apps
to be intuitive and beautiful.
When you put in the extra effort to
craft a well-designed experience,
your app will have a much
better chance for success.